1
BITT POLYTECHNIC
RANCHI
Virtual Labs
2
I. Interactive Design making in a virtual Urban World: Value addition
Simulation on GIS
The core component of the UCLA Urban Simulator is a visualization system which provides
high quality photo-realistic simulations of selected communities and neighborhoods. With this
system, aerial photographs can be combined with street level video to efficiently create a realistic
(down to plants, street signs and the graffiti on the walls) computer model of an urban
neighborhood which can then be used for interactive fly and walk-through demonstrations.
SYSTEM COMPONENTS
UCLA Urban Simulation Window
Work at UCLA has focused on developing a user interface for viewing and interacting with a 3-
dimensional environment which has been designed specifically to meet the needs of the planning
and design professions. This interface and simulation software runs on a four processor Silicon
Graphics Onyx workstation with Reality Engine graphics hardware allowing extensive use of
real-time texture mapping.
Visual Simulation Run-Time Database Structure
When a model is loaded into the simulator for viewing, a run-time database of the 3- dimensional
geometry is generated. This visual database, which is known as the "scene", is structured to
maximize the efficiency of frame display so that real-time dynamics are feasible. The scene is
organized into a hierarchical structure called a tree which is composed of connected database
units called nodes.
Figure 1 illustrates the most efficient scheme for database organization from a visual simulation
system perspective. In this case the physical database is partitioned into regions, called tiles.
Objects are organized on a tile-by-tile basis in the bottom tree structure.
3
Figure-1 The most efficient scheme for database organization from a value added simulation
system perspective.
4
II. SIMULATION ON TRAFFIC TUNNEL LIGHTING SYSTEM
1.1 Background
Tunnel is a structure completely enclosed except at the entrance and exit openings. The use of
tunnels is expanding, as the road networks become more and more crowded day-by-day. Within
tunnels, reliable performance of the lighting system is critical in order to satisfy the human visual
system. Tunnel lighting gained importance during the 1960’s and the international development
of tunnel lighting was accounted by CIE (International Commission on Illuminance/Commission
international de L’Eclairage). The significant light contrast between daylight and tunnel
luminance causes the driver to slow down as they approach the tunnel entrance. This
phenomenon is known as the “black hole” effect, which can be minimized by providing enough
light at the immediate tunnel entrance. Luminaries are normally suspended in one or more rows
under the tunnel ceiling.
As the adaptation process of the human eye is not instantaneous, it takes 2 to 4 s to adjust
when moving through different light intensity (this phenomenon is termed as ‘Flicker’s Effect’
or ‘Black Hole’ Effect) (CIE Publ. 88, 2004). The most dangerous part of a tunnel is the access
zone (entrance of the tunnel), because the driver’s pupils can’t immediately adapt to the darker
area when the driver enters the tunnel. When this happens, the driver can not see any obstacles
in front of him. So proper lighting must be installed in the access zone to help the driver to
adapt to the darker zone. The method for determining the brightness in an access zone was
issued by the CIE. In addition, the CIE also issued recommendations on uniformity, glare
control and flicker to enhance lighting quality in tunnel interiors. Lighting at the entrance and
throughout the tunnel must cater for driver’s ability to fully see the road ahead, other vehicles
as well as any obstacles there may be on the carriageway. In view of the above, the study of
illumination system of traffic tunnel is of paramount importance.
1.2 Problems Encountered in Tunnels with Old Lighting System
1. The need for lighting of tunnels was not felt until the making of tunnels for road traffic
begun. The users of traffic tunnels need light to steer by. During night-time, the users can
see with their headlamps in a tunnel as on an unlighted road; but if they enter a tunnel in
the day-time, the headlamps are of no help and they will be blind for the first five or ten 
5
seconds. When drivers enter the tunnels traveling from a very bright external light level
to a comparably darker level, for certain instant they unable to detect any obstacle from a
distance equal to Stopping Sight Distance from the tunnel portal. This may lead to serious
accident within the tunnel.
2. Also, the methods of lighting of the tunnel roads through high pressure sodium lamp is
not sufficient to provide high luminance levels in the threshold zones corresponding to
the required lighting levels. Such methods are not practicable because of the high cost
involved in the lighting system and because of the notion that less lights would be
sufficient.
1.3. Objectives of the Study
a) To study the illumination system of traffic tunnels.
b) To assess the adequacy of illumination of traffic tunnels.
c) To design the illumination system for traffic tunnels and evaluating the adequacy of the
newly designed illumination system with the existing one.
To achieve these objectives, the lighting system in traffic tunnels must meet the following
requirements:
a) The lighting shall give the carriageway an adequate luminance level, and the luminance
shall be uniformly distributed over the carriageway, in wet as well as dry conditions.
b) The angle of incidence of the light relative to the line of sight shall be such as to give
high visibility to the road markings, in wet as well as dry conditions.
c) The lower part of the tunnel wall must receive an adequate level of luminance.
d) The lighting must not give rise to glare and flicker.
2.0 Study analysis through Flow Chart:-
6
2.1 Introduction:-
Literature
Review
Tunnel Zones Illumination
Design
Experimental
Work
Field
Investigation
Current
Practice
Measurement of
illumination level
in highway tunnel
DIALux
Simulation
Geometry
creation
Setting up
lightings and
conducting
simulations
Study of
illumination
behavior in
different
zones of
tunnel
Study of effect
of various
parameters
(glare, flicker's
effect, etc.)
Result and
Discussion
Conclusion
7
The illumination of a road tunnel is of uttermost importance for driver safety in order to reduce
the risk of accidents. It has to aid the driver in detecting moving objects and also obstacles in
front of them. To describe the necessary lighting in the tunnel sections, a number of zones, each
with a specific lighting requirement, have been defined as shown schematically in Figure 2.1.
Furthermore, values for the braking distance are determined on the basis of the regulations for
road geometry. The details of the different lighting zones in tunnel sections are discussed below.
Figure. 2.1 The luminance curve of a tunnel.
8
The computational planning and analysis of the modelling work are depicted in Figure 2.2.

Figure 2.2 Analysis of computational planning
The computational
planning analysis
1. Selection of the standard and
description of the tunnel profile.
2. Configuration of the lighting
installation
3. Optimization of the lighting
installation.
4. Execution of the result
5. Documentation of the plan
9
3.0 Model- The second model of Tunnel is based upon bilateral symmetrical lighting
arrangement of above mentioned dimensions. Here 20 numbers of bright special lighting
luminaries have been used, having total luminous flux having center-to-center spacing of 10m
along the longitudinal direction of tunnel and 5m spacing in transverse direction, the model is
shown in Figure 3.1.
Figure 3.1 Model of the bilateral symmetrical lighting arrangement.
Figure 3.2 The pseudo color image of bilateral symmetrical lighting.
10
Figure 3.3 The pseudo color image throughout the tunnel length.
Figure 3.4 The contours of midline lighting throughout the tunnel length
